---
layout: post
title: Kivik v4.0 is out!
date: 2023-10-26
author: Jonathan Hall
permalink: /kivik-v4-released
---
Three and a half years since the last major release of Kivik, I'm happy to announce the latest major update to [Kivik, version 4.0](https://github.com/go-kivik/kivik/releases/tag/v4.0.1).

Kivik 4.0 includes a number of breaking changes compared to the 3.x series, as well as a number of other improvements and organizational changes.

Here are some highlights:

- The iterator interface has been improved, particularly when passing multiple queries to a view.
- The various official Kivik drivers have been integrated in to the main module.
- Options are now functional options, rather than a plain `map[string]interface{}` as before.
- An effort has been made to make different functions with similar result types more consistent.
- Kivik now implements the CouchDB replication protocol. This means you can manage your own replications (in contrast to simply asking CouchDB to trigger a replication for you). This is most useful for backups or when bootstrapping your CouchDB instance, as you can now replicate between CouchDB and a filesystem!
- The `kivik` command line tool has been added, which allows you to interact with CouchDB more easily from the command line. Tired of `curl`ing to configure and test CouchDB? Try the `kivik` CLI tool instead!

See the [project README](https://github.com/go-kivik/kivik#changes-from-3x-to-4x) for a more complete list of breaking changes, especially if you are upgrading from Kivik 3.

Of course, just because Kivik 4 is out, doesn't mean I'm out of ideas for improving it. I still have big plans, and will continue to chip away at them as time permits.  A few things I hope to make progress on in the coming months:

- Support for [full text search](https://github.com/go-kivik/kivik/issues/450)
- Continue to flesh out the filesystem and in-memory drivers
- Improve the replication protocol implementation. The current version works, but doesn't use all of the efficiency gains made possible with a full implementation.

And of course, I'll continue to respond to bug reports and feature requests, as I receive them.

Thanks for using Kivik and CouchDB!
